Building SSF for Unix
=====================

Get build dependencies
----------------------

SSF depends on Boost and OpenSSL libraries, as well as Kerberos headers.
Install development packages for these using your distro's package manager.

**NOTE**: Boost ASIO appears to be incompatible with OpenSSL 1.1, be sure
to install OpenSSL 1.0.2.

For example, on Debian/Ubuntu:

```
# apt-get install libssl1.0-dev libboost1.62 libboost-dev libkrb5-dev
```

As an alternative, you can also build OpenSSL and/or Boost yourself from
source. The `build_openssl.sh` and `build_boost.sh` scripts in the
`builddeps` folder can be used for that.

Building SSF
------------

Building SSF requires CMake and a C++ compiler.

On Debian/Ubuntu, these can be obtained using apt:

```
# apt-get install cmake g++
```

If you obtained the source for the git repository, make sure the submodules
are checked out:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/securesocketfunneling/ssf.git
$ git submodule update --init
```

Create a build directory and generate the projet makefiles in it.

```
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake /path/to/ssf/source -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=
```

Various parameters can be customized when generating the project files:

* `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`: `Debug`, `RelWithDebInfo`, `Release` or `MinSizeRel`. Build type.
* `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`: Install directory prefix.
* `USE_STATIC_LIBS`: `ON` or `OFF` to enable/disable linking statically against
boost and OpenSSL. It is recommended to set this to `ON` if you intend to build
and run SSF on different environments. The default is `OFF`.
* `USE_STATIC_RUNTIME`: `ON` or `OFF` to enable/disable linking statically
against libstdc++. This is set automatically to the same value as
`USE_STATIC_LIBS`.
* `BUILD_UNIT_TESTS`: `ON` or `OFF` to enable/disable building SSF unit tests.
* `DISABLE_RTTI`: `ON` or `OFF` to disable/enable C++ Run-Time Type Information.
RTTI is enabled by default. Only disable RTTI if boost libraries have been built
without RTTI.
* `DISABLE_TLS`: `ON` or `OFF` to disable/enable TLS layer. Network traffic will
use raw TCP and be left unsecured. Provided for testing purpose only.

Proceed to build SSF:

```
$ make
```

You can install SSF on your system using `make install`. The full install
directory is the content of `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` prepended to `DESTDIR`.

```
$ make install DESTDIR=/install_path
```

Building 32bit SSF on a 64bit machine
-------------------------------------

First make sure you have a multiarch capable compiler suite installed,
on Debian/Ubuntu, it can be installed using apt:

```
# dpkg --add-architecture i386
# apt-get install gcc-multilib g++-multilib
```

Then make sure you have the 32bit packages of OpenSSL and Boost libraries
installed.

```
# apt-get install libssl1.0.0:i386 libssl-dev:i386 libboost1.62:i386
```

Now, project files can be generated by setting the `-m32` compilation flag in
the `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS` environment variables.

Also, it seems that cmake's `FindOpenSSL.cmake` module has trouble choosing the
correct librairies in multilib environments, so `OPENSSL_CRYPTO_LIBRARY` and
and `OPENSSL_SSL_LIBRARY` options need to be passed to help cmake to find the
32bit version of the libraries.

```
CFLAGS=-m32 CXXFLAGS=${CFLAGS} cmake /path/to/ssf/source -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DUSE_STATIC_LIBS=ON -DDISABLE_RTTI=ON -DOPENSSL_CRYPTO_LIBRARY=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libcrypto.a -DOPENSSL_SSL_LIBRARY=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libssl.a
```

Finally, invoke `make` as usual:

```
make
```
